Welcome, dear brothers and sisters.
In this program, it's my pleasure to share reports about our in-person activities.
We'll also provide updates about our disaster relief efforts.
And finally, in view of the rapidly changing world scene, we'll discuss the need for decisive
action when we're confronted with dangerous circumstances.
Since September 1, 2022, we've resumed the House to House Ministry.
And we also had a worldwide campaign to offer Bible studies using the Enjoy Life Forever
brochure.
Many honest-hearted ones are responding to this good news of something better.
Since our last update, it was announced that as of October 1, we are no longer strongly
recommending mask-wearing while attending in-person meetings.
So unless it's a governmental requirement, it is a personal choice whether to wear a
mask while participating in theocratic activities.
We respect the individual decisions of our brothers and sisters on this matter.
This direction will also apply to our in-person theocratic schools, circuit assemblies, and
regional conventions when they resume in 2023.
By January 1, 2023, if it is Jehovah's will, we hope to have returned to most of our pre-pandemic
arrangements in harmony with local governmental regulations.
There are some activities that have not yet been approved to resume, such as Bethel Tours
and guests.
But what about beyond January 1?
We're excited to inform you that Jehovah willinging will resume in-person special conventions
starting January 1, 2024.
Your information on the specific locations and dates will be announced soon.
We're very happy to share these positive developments with you.
During the pandemic, tragically, many of us have lost loved ones to COVID-19.
Sadly, others have lost loved ones because of war.
Natural disasters are other painful circumstances.
In recent times, likely you've shared the Bible's message of comfort with a coworker,
a neighbor, or a relative.
To help us in such situations, we're pleased to announce the release of our new video.
It is entitled Comfort for those who mourn.
We're confident that this video will be a valuable tool to help us comfort our relatives
and other acquaintances, even those who may not be religiously inclined.
Please enjoy watching this comforting video.
Our family and friends are precious to us.
They show us love.
They are there when we need them.
So when we lose a loved one in death, we want comfort from someone who understands
God and his son, Jesus, understand.
While on Earth, Jesus experienced the pain of losing family and friends.
After the death of a close friend named Lazarus, Jesus' grief was intense.
He felt what others felt.
The pain was crushing, yet his empathy moved him to comfort others.
Still, he wanted to do more.
Jesus spoke with his father and brought his friend back to life.
Jehovah God and Jesus have not changed.
They feel pain when people die.
They feel your pain and have promised to eliminate death.
God will swallow up death forever.
Jehovah will wipe away the tears from all faces.
Jesus also gave this beautiful promise for the future.
Do not be amazed at this.
For the hour is coming in which all those in the memorial tombs will hear his voice and come out.
A special magazine entitled Help for those who grieve has been prepared to provide comfort.
You can download your copy free of charge on JW.org.
We are sorry for your loss and hope that this message will provide you comfort during this difficult time.
This video is now available on JW.org and in JW Library.
You can find it under what's new and also under videos, our meetings and ministry, tools for the ministry.
In order for you to have easy access to this video in JW Library, you may choose to add it to your favorites.
We also have some updates about our disaster relief efforts.
As reported on JW News, Hurricanes Fiona and Ian have affected our brothers and sisters in the Caribbean
and in parts of Canada and the United States.
Sadly, one brother in Cuba died.
Between the two storms, over 3,600 of our brothers' homes in over a hundred Kingdom Halls were damaged or destroyed.
The branch offices are working hard to provide assistance and spiritual encouragement.
We continue to pray for all those affected by natural disasters and for all those who are providing relief.
You may also be wondering, how are our brothers in Ukraine and Russia doing?
Since February, over 26,000 brothers and sisters have chosen the flea areas affected by the war in Ukraine.
Because of recent events, thousands of people are fleeing Russia.
This includes some of our brothers.
At the outset, some thought the war might last for only a few weeks or months, but this is not the case.
If you have fled the war to another country, please know that we want to help you to regain a sense of normalcy in your lives as soon as possible.
What are we doing to assist?
Well, let's watch the following report from the Central Europe branch.
In our branch territory, over 8,500 brothers and sisters arrived as refugees.
In March, the coordinators committee directed that we appoint case monitors to work under the direction of disaster relief committees.
Case monitors work along with elders to help individuals and families to maintain their spiritual routine and become self-sufficient.
Some publishers have been able to make personal arrangements to obtain accommodations and employment.
Others have been able to benefit from government programs.
We have found that the sooner we can help our brothers to get settled into their own home,
to find employment, and to associate with a local congregation, the sooner they feel a sense of normalcy.
This benefits them spiritually, physically, and emotionally.
Jehovah is really blessing these efforts.
Recently, a system made an appointment for a refugee family to view an apartment.
A few local brothers and a translator accompanied the family.
The real estate agent was impressed.
He said, never before has anyone been so professional.
I am more than thrilled with your religious community.
At the end of the visit, the family from Ukraine asked the agent if they would get the apartment.
The agent showed them his calendar and said that he had 10 other applicants for the same place.
Then he thought about it for a moment and said with a smile,
you are doing such a great work.
I would like to contribute my part and do something good.
You get the apartment.
Afterward, the agent asked more about Jehovah's Witnesses and our work.
He then assured our brother that he would help us in the future.
He explained that whenever an apartment opens up,
he would let the brothers know first and they could arrange to view it.
The agent is also helping with the paperwork so that the refugees can benefit
from available government assistance which covers the rental costs.
What a blessing for all involved.
It's encouraging to hear how so many are working hard
to help our refugee brothers get back to a more normal life.
And we're so proud of our refugee brothers for being flexible
and for having realistic expectations.
We are also working to assist various branch offices around the world,
especially in Europe, to be better equipped to deal with potential energy shortages.
This may be in the form of adding solar panels, generators, and battery backups.
This will help branches to continue their vital work of delivering spiritual food
and giving support and direction to congregation activities.
But now for the next few minutes, let's discuss the theme.
When you say danger, act quickly.
No doubt you'd agree that the scene of this world is changing.
The relative stability we've experienced in various parts of the world
seems to be rapidly disappearing.
There are so many natural disasters.
Increased unrest, war, threats of food shortages, energy shortages, and more.
What should we do when we are personally confronted with such dangers?
Well, please turn with me to Proverbs chapter 22.
And let's read together verse number three.
The shrewd one sees the danger and conceals himself.
But the inexperienced keep right on going and suffer the consequences.
Yes, when we see danger, we're wise to conceal ourselves.
But we must act quickly.
This is true now, and it was true in Bible times too.
Consider a few examples.
When David faced threats of attack from Saul or others, he quickly got up and ran away.
In the first century, Jehovah's Angel told Joseph to take newborn Jesus and Mary
and flee to Egypt because, quote,
Herod is about to search for the young child to kill him.
So Joseph and Mary left that night.
Later, Jesus told Christians to flee when they saw Jerusalem surrounded by armies.
Let's read that at Luke chapter 21.
And we're going to read together verses 20 and 21.
However, when you see Jerusalem surrounded by in-capped armies,
then know that the desolating of her has drawn near.
Then let those in Judea began fleeing to the mountains.
Let those in the midst of her leave and let those in the countryside not enter into her.
What's the point?
When we see danger, we don't need to panic, but we do need to act quickly.
That may mean fleeing the area where we live and saying goodbye to some
or even all of our possessions.
Many of our brothers and sisters in Ukraine and Russia are facing this question.
Should I flee because of the war?
That can be a very difficult decision to make.
Unless the government directs us to flee, it's a personal decision.
We do not expect Jesus or an angel to tell us to leave.
But Jehovah does expect us to use our power of reason.
He wants us to act wisely.
Let's see how one family from Ukraine responded when they realized they were in danger.
Even before the war started, there had been warnings.
We had family worship and studied an article from the Awake magazine.
There was a lot of advice about emergency kits and to have a plan of what you will do,
we made a firm decision that if war broke out and there were explosions, we would not stay.
Each one of us had our own emergency kit ready.
We had put them in the hallway before everything started.
I told the children, aside from your backpack, take only what you really need.
Each child took only one extra change of clothes, and that's it.
And we had filled up the tank in the car.
Up to that moment, before the war, we had never had a full tank.
We thought, let there never be war, but at least we'll have a full tank.
We were ready and waiting, but what next?
Was it safe to go or not?
The elders called and told me to weigh up the pros and cons.
Then there was an explosion.
The windows in the doors shook, and I thought, no, we have to leave, that will be safer.
So the whole family, me, my wife and five children, took our backpacks to the car.
It took us just a few minutes to get the car ready.
And when we were leaving, all the gas stations were crowded, and there were huge queues.
Our tank was full, so we only had to fill up again near the border.
We were at the border for 21 hours.
It took 21 hours moving the car little by little.
Time and again, we are convinced that Jehovah's advice is always for the best.
Even if we don't understand why, we should follow it, always.
And that obedience brings blessings.
That's how it works.
Being prepared allowed them to make the personal decision to leave quickly when they saw the danger.
Ahead of time, they obediently followed the direction to have go bags and a full tank of gas in the car.
Dear brothers and sisters, because of the instability of the world,
we have to be prepared mentally, physically, and spiritually for disasters
and rapidly changing circumstances.
Today is affecting the East Brothers, but tomorrow it may be affecting us.
But we can be sure that we will all stand together and help one another
through whatever challenges we may face.
This is a time for us to support one another.
And really, relief work is a vital part of our sacred service.
Please turn with me to Acts chapter 11.
And we're going to take a look at verses 28 and 29.
One of them, named Agabas, stood up and foretold through the Spirit
that a great famine was about to come on the entire inhabited earth,
which in fact did take place in the time of Claudius.
So the disciples determined each, according to what he could afford,
to send relief to the brothers living in Judea.
The study note on verse 29 helps us appreciate that this is the first recorded instance
of Christian sending relief aid to fellow Christians living in another part of the world.
The study note goes on to explain.
The Greek word, diaconia, often rendered ministry,
is also used in the sense of relief work at Acts 12.25 and relief ministry
at 2 Corinthians 8.4.
The use of the Greek word, diaconia, in the Christian Greek scriptures,
shows that Christians have a twofold ministry.
One aspect is the preaching and teaching work.
The other aspect involves their ministry in behalf of fellow believers, as mentioned here.
Paul showed that these different aspects of the Christian ministry all constitute sacred service.
So we see that relief work is sacred service.
It is a vital part of our ministry.
We often say thank you, but we want you to know how very much we appreciate
that you are generously supporting our relief efforts.
You're providing food and rebuilding homes in Kingdom Halls.
When refugees come, you're welcoming them at border crossings and into your homes.
You're helping our brothers rebuild their lives and provide to them what they need.
All of this is greatly needed and deeply appreciated.
Thank you for what you're doing, and please know that we love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.